[Music]
thank you
the most common question I get is how to
do a realistic interior in lumion so
I'll walk you through my process for
getting realistic results in lumion for
interior renders including the render
presets and I'll show you my seven steps
for the realistic interior in lumion
let's start with number one references
let's say you already have your room
modeled but now you are not sure what to
do with it and this is where references
play an important role in your design
for this scene I know I wanted to make a
Japanese interior style this Japanese
style it's a merger Japanese and
Scandinavian and it mixes Earth colors
with minimalist Scandinavian design I
went to Pinterest which is a great
source for Gathering references and
inspiration and started my research for
a Japanese style living room when you
open any image on Pinterest on the
bottom it shows you all the similar
results which is quite handy
you can even create a new board with
just a Japanese style references
by the way you can follow me on
Pinterest and check my boards I have
tons of references there I like to
create more parts with my image
references and for this I use a tool
called puref you can download this for
free at prf.com I just drag and drop the
images here and then organize them into
small groups now looking at these
references I noticed that the plants are
either dry or very low and dark
saturated greens something to keep in
mind when later building the scene
now that we have our references we move
to the next step 3D modeling
you have your idea and have modeled your
room what's next after importing it in
lumion now you need to fill it with
objects to start building the scene so
naturally you start modeling all the 3D
objects yourself right well not exactly
there are tons of websites with ready to
use realistic 3D models and you should
only model any object if you can really
find it online or if you have to contact
much of your time to model it for
example I like this poof and since it's
quite simple I went ahead and took
literally one minute to model it the
same goes for the dining table and the
coffee table
pretty simple furniture that takes no
time to model
as for the sideboard I just repurposed
the small model I had and rescale it to
fit the scene other objects like the
sofa ceiling lamps TV furniture and even
the ball of figs I got from online
libraries it saved me a lot of time and
don't stick with just one site to get
your 3D models in this project I got my
models from different sites like 3D
Skype polygon Mega scans and every
motion high quality models make a big
difference in your final design let's
say I have exactly the same scene but
with low quality models and without much
thought put into it you can see how it
looks really bad in comparison to the
high quality ones
and not only you should use high quality
models but you should be an interior
designer as well think of the proportion
of your objects for the room you are
designing sometimes you see a great
model like this sofa on a white
background and it looks great but now
yeah that you are seeing and you see how
it not only doesn't fit my interior
style but also it's way too big for this
ROM making it feel cluttered
this is one of the advantages of
downloading assets from online libraries
if you were to model this sofa it will
take a lot of time to then realize it
doesn't work at all like this I just
searched for a better one that will fit
the design and don't waste time and the
next step is building everyday life into
a scene after you have done step number
two as with everything that the computer
makes it's all perfect the chairs are
perfectly aligned the edges are with a
Sharp 90 degree angle and the surfaces
are perfectly clean this is the part
where you look around you and analyze
how surfaces are in the real world
probably full of imperfections some
scratches and small dents look at your
desk is it a 90 degree sharp edge
probably not there isn't anything with
these sharp edges in real life that's
where you come in you can start building
this everyday life into your scene
rotate the chairs and move them slightly
move and rotate the TV Furniture drawers
do you see these paintings to make them
look like they are not simply glued to
the wall I have rotated them vertically
so it looks like they are hanging on the
wall do this in every scene but in a
very small amount or else it will look
like everything is crooked and that's
not the image you want to pass
you can also add some personal objects
to suggest that someone actually lives
here a blanket on the sofa a book or a
notepad all of these details tell the
story and help you create a realistic
scene do the same for the edges for
everything that you see with a Sharp 90
degree Edge you can either bevel the
edges in the 3D model implication that
you use or you can simply do this in
lumion select the material now in the
material properties click on this Arrow
at the bottom to open up the advanced
settings
now go to the fourth icon that looks
like a clock and you will see an option
called edges
just drag the slider to have some bevel
this creates a highlight on the beveled
areas which helps with the realism
as for the surface imperfections you can
add them to lumion by using decals but
actually let's hold on to the surface
imperfections for a while because it
will be part of the next step materials
and by the way if you want to take your
renders to the next level you can join
my illumine rendered course the link
will be in the description below
so about the materials one of the
biggest advantages of using real-time
applications like lumion is that you can
apply any material and see in real time
how that works you have thousands of
options to choose from what materials
marble concrete all of these play an
important role in your design and even
small differences make a huge impact on
your room and again by using lumion even
if a wood texture has almost the right
color you can even adjust the saturation
for example if you feel the final design
will benefit from it also the material
should have balance don't simply use the
same marble throughout the room use
moderation so you can make some elements
stand out with that being said instead
of going to Google and searching for a
texture and applying it to your project
I recommend using PBR materials these
materials have the correct physical
values and it saves the guesswork with
PVR materials you simply load the
textures into lumion and that's it
there's nothing else you need to do you
can go have a coffee now and relax there
are plenty of sites you can get these
materials from and I'll leave a few in
the description below but let me now
guide you step by step on how you can
download and apply a PVR material from
polygon website into lumion so head over
to polygon.com now click here on
Textures
and if you just want to test it first
you can click on this section that says
free
I'm going to select this wood flooring
and when you click you can see here the
dimensions
2.9 by 2.9 meters moving mapping scale
is in meters so we'll have the same
value of 2.9 to our material later I'll
select a 4K resolution and on the
download options I have here several
maps for lumion I need the diffuse
displacement gloss normals and
reflections
now before we apply the material in
lumion do you see this Reflection from
the exterior this is because we don't
have the reflection control on our scene
we need to go to tools and then select
the sphere called reflection control
place it in the center of the room now
it's reflecting correctly let's load
each map in the correct slot inside
lumion with polygon you need to invert
the normal map and to invert it you just
click here on the texture and now go to
the right where you see the bigger
preview
and on the top click flip normal map
direction
now it's with the correct lighting to
load the reflection map you first need
to select this icon which size texture
masks reflectivity now you can load them
up
finally we can add a value of 2.9 meters
on the map scale which is what we saw on
the polygon side
by the way you notice I selected a 4K
resolution right there are other options
you can select like 2K or 1K see the
render with 1K resolution
and now with 4K resolution
you need to use your best judgment when
it's needed a higher resolution for your
materials for objects that are further
away from the camera you can use 1K
texture so that the difference would be
so noticeable in normal materials you
can see which texture resolution a
material has by hovering over the
material name and seeing the 1K 2K or 3K
at the end this indicates the texture
resolution another mistake I often see
is using the wrong scale let's take the
wood floor from polygon side as an
example
we saw it as 2.9 meters
so if I apply a map scale value of 10
this will result in a new realistic
texture and not so realistic render
right
usually you can get away with a 10 to 15
scaling difference but more than that
and you are damaging your scene another
common problem is texture repetition
usually you can hide this problem when
adding furniture and other elements or
we can use surface imperfections
remember I told you we would come back
to this object now it's a perfect time
you can use decals to add surface
imperfections to both add realism to
your scene and help break the texture
repetition let's add some decals by
going to effects
decals and here you select from the big
variety they have you see this section
wall paint these work great to give some
variation to the wood floor
I'll make it look like it's with some
areas cleaner than others and if the
selection of decals Lumin has is not
enough you can import your own custom
decals by clicking this lumion logo now
on the top right corner I'll expand the
settings by clicking on this arrow and I
will import some scratches I've
downloaded mine for free from ablcg.com
you can search here imperfections
and select the one you like
now back in lumion I import the texture
and adjust some of the values
and this is the before and after
now that you have added high quality
materials to your scene we move to the
next step which is composition
when you are taking a new render you are
basically a photographer in each shot
you have to get the best angle to
promote the best out of your design and
as any photographer you need to
understand the basics to be able to get
a good shot there are three things you
need to master focal length exposure and
Rule of hurts focal length is the angle
of view a lower value will result in a
larger field of view but it will have a
lot of Destruction this is a good
example of how focal length changes our
perception do you see how different the
face of this character looks if we go
from 10 millimeters to 100 millimeters
the same applies to an interior space
using a 10 millimeter focal length will
make a room look bigger and it allows
you to show the whole space in one shot
but the image doesn't look nice and you
don't need to show the whole space in
one shot you can use 30 millimeter for
this room and instead take two or three
renders showing different spaces of the
room
you can even use a 50 millimeter focal
length to take some detail shots with a
nice depth of field a lower focal knife
works well on small and Tighter spaces
like a small bathroom for example let me
show you how you can select focal length
in Lumia click on the photo mode icon in
the bottom right corner then if you're
over over the image you see a new menu
shows up on the bottom
here on the focal length you can either
drag the slider to increase or decrease
or you can double left click it will
turn red
now press backspace and insert the value
you want
these two buttons on the left it's for
adjusting the horizontal perspective and
the other one is to set your camera
height to 1.6 meters
I recommend using a lower value between
1 to 1.3 meters it's the ideal
there is one effect you should always
add when taking renders at a human
height level the two-point perspective
this will make your vertical line
straight resulting in a better image
don't use it when taking aerial shots as
you see the image gets really distorted
the next thing you need to master its
exposure this is the amount of light you
let in the camera sensor the higher the
exposure the more light you'll have on
your seat
so if your scene is too dark you can
increase the exposure to compensate
to adjust this value in lumion in photo
mode click on effects then camera and
select exposure
now you can simply drag the slider to
increase or decrease the exposure and
lastly use the rule offers
if you imagine dividing a photo into
nine equal zones using horizontal and
vertical lines that forms your rule of
Earth's grid you can place the most
important parts of your image along
these lines for a better render
lumion already has this compositional
helper built in to guide you
if you right click on the render region
in photo mode you can see this
horizontal and vertical lines show up
that's your rule of hurts
so you see how I can move the camera and
place these items along the lines to
have a better image now that you set up
all your cameras you are ready for the
next step lighting
one of the main problems I see when
people try to create realistic Interiors
in lumion is that they only rely on the
daytime lighting nothing else you
shouldn't be afraid of using artificial
lining to complement with lumion it
works quite well for interiors take this
interior for example I'm using
spotlights for ceiling lights and these
two lights I rotate them slightly to the
wall so we have more lighting detail on
this same wall
you can see that these two lights are
not exactly in the place as the ceiling
lights but sometimes you need to fake it
to have better results
I'm using a line light here and a very
important tip rotate them like this
because since the area lights and line
lights don't have shadows this way it
creates the illusion of the Shadow and
reduce the falloff of the light so it's
not lighting the whole scene
remember this light is just an accent
light now about these lamps here you see
they have this effect like they are
turned on right
if I just have a spotlight inside you
see that they look like the light is
turned off to fix this we just need to
add an area right on the top of the lamp
make it to really small and reduce the
Fallout now duplicate this slide move it
down and rotate so it's pointing upwards
and now we see that we have this effect
like it's turned on
one final note for this effect to work
you need to set your lamp material
luxiness to the maximum
I usually add an area lights by the
window to boost light from the exterior
to the interior
I leave it with the default color
temperature which is daylight and
increase the falloff so it doesn't light
up the whole room
remember it's good to have a balance
between light and dark areas
and finally I had a spotlight you can
use this one lamp 23 it will have the
same effect as the area light but it
creates shadows and highlights
especially here on the ceiling oh I
almost forgot I only use emissive lights
to show that the light is turned on just
add about 10 20 percent of emissiveness
don't overdo it or else it will look too
bright and unrealistic
now that you light up the scene what
else is missing the render effects as I
said in the beginning of the video I'll
guide you step by step which effects to
use and the settings you should adjust
so the next step is lumion render
effects to lumion makes your life easier
by giving you rendered styles
when you are in photo mode just click
this button that says custom style since
we are making an interior I'll select
the interior Style
let's just take a render with this
render style and see how it looks
well it's not too bad you see that by
following the first steps of good 3D
models and high quality materials and a
great composition we already have a good
image in seconds let's see what you can
adjust on this preset to make it better
on the shadow increase the coloring to
about 20 then the brightness leave it at
about here only Shadow this is where
many people have that super dark corners
on the walls because this effect is all
the way to the maximum and as you see it
doesn't make the image look better I
usually leave it at about 0.1 for
interiors
on the shadow correction you can leave
this setting all the way to the left the
rest leave it as it is next is Skylight
as the name says it's the amount of
light from the sky for interiors I use
the first slider to the maximum so I
have the most amount of light possible
the second slider is how much your
shadows will be affected by the Skylight
in color so a higher value will result
in a more bluish scene and the lower
value more neutral scene I recommend
using this in a higher value only when
you are rendering a blue hour scene so
let's leave this one at about 0.6 we
don't need these two toggle options for
the interior and the render quality is
set it to ultra this will make your
render Times Higher but it will have a
better quality next is Hyperlite this
effect creates slight bounces on your
scene the higher the value the more
light bounces and the brighter your
scene will be since my window is quite
large I will decrease this to about 25
percent if you have smaller Windows you
can probably go for about 50 percent
as for the reflection here you need to
select which areas you want to have the
best quality for the reflections
we can select the floor
the walls the ceiling and the dining
table increase the plane margins to the
maximum this will make this plane catch
more areas of reflection until 25
centimeters and so this way you don't
need to add more reflection planes
having better performance both for
working and rendering next is called a
correction and I'll make the color
temperature to about 0.2 and decrease
the brightness to about 0.5 increase the
contrast to 0.7 as for the exposure
right now is too high let's reduce it to
0.6 I'll add just a little bit of
sharpen to about 0.2 and the sun effect
is not working currently because we have
the real Skies effect turned on for this
scene let's make the fog density at 1.4
the fall off at zero almost reaching 0.1
the fog brightness increased to 0.9 and
brightness to 6. next we have real Skies
I'm not making a blue hour scene so
let's replace the sky go to overcast and
select the second sky
now in the settings put the heading
around here and increase the brightness
the rest will leave it as it is that is
another effect we must have now the
global elimination click on the effects
on the top select lighting and choose
Global illumination this will create
white bounces from the artificial
lighting
click select lights and now instead of
selecting all the lights which will make
your scene quite heavy and you will have
performance issues you can select these
four lights and over here these two
increase the GI amount at the bottom and
press ok
now adjust the follow-up speed until you
see the ceiling getting lit by the
lights
increase the reduced spots all the way
up and now that you're done with the
global elimination disable the preview
Spotlight GI and shadows
this way it saves on the performance and
it will be visible on the final render
lastly you can add some lens and
Perfection effects like the vignetting
the chromatic operation and the bloom
effect and remember to add a print
poster enhancer which you can find under
the tools category if you are going to
render a 4K or 8K image after you've
followed all these steps you should be
able to have a render that looks like
this
and I recommend you checking my video
about the first thing you should do
before starting any project which will
help you understand how I achieve
realism with my 3D renders I'll leave a
link up here and in the description
below and I'll see you in the next video